Adds documentation for ISM error prevention (#2090)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _im-plugin/ism/error-prevention/resolutions.md

---
layout: default
title: ISM error prevention resolutions
parent: ISM error prevention
nav_order: 5
---

# ISM error prevention resolutions

Resolutions of errors for each validation rule action are listed below.

---

#### Table of contents
1. TOC
{:toc}

---

## The index is not the write index

> To confirm if one index is a write index, run the following request:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To confirm that the index is a write index, run the following request:
```

```bash
GET <index>/_alias?pretty
```

> If the response does not contain `"is_write_index" : true`, the index is not a write index:

Reviewer 2: This sentence defines what is not a write index but then provides an example for what is a write index.  For clarity, something like:
"If the response does not contain `"is_write_index" : true`, the index is not a write index. The following example confirms the index is a write index:

```json
{
  "<index>" : {
    "aliases" : {
      "<index_alias>" : { 
        "is_write_index" : true
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> To set an index as write index, run the following request:

Reviewer 2: "... as a write index". ?

> To set as as write index, run the following request:

Reviewer: Or "To make the index a write index...".

```bash
PUT <index>
{
  "aliases": {
    "<index_alias>" : {
        "is_write_index" : true
    }
  }
}
```

## The index does not have an alias

If the index does not have an alias, you can add an alias to the index by running the following request:

```bash
POST _aliases
{
  "actions": [
    {
      "add": {
        "index": "<target_index>",
        "alias": "<index_alias>"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

## Skipping rollover action is true

In the event that skipping a rollover action occurs, run the following request:

```bash
 GET <target_index>/_settings?pretty
```

> If the response includes:

Reviewer: I'm not sure that we can run the sentence across two lines, though I can see why we did. Instead, could we maybe say something like "If you receive the response in the first example, you can reset it by running the request in the second example:"?

## The rollover policy misses rollover_alias index setting

Add a `rollover_alias` index setting to the rollover policy to resolve this issue. Run the following request:

```bash
PUT _index_template/ism_rollover
{
  "index_patterns": ["<index_patterns_in_rollover_policy>"],
  "template": {
   "settings": {
    "plugins.index_state_management.rollover_alias": "<rollover_alias>"
   }
 }
}
```

## Data too large and exceeding the threshold

Check the [JVM information]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/nodes-apis/nodes-info/) and increase the heap memory.

## Maximum shards exceeded

The limit of shards per node, or per index, causes this issue to occur. Check if there is a `total_shards_per_node` limit by running the following request:

```bash
GET /_cluster/settings
```

If the response contains `total_shards_per_node`, increase the value of it temporally by running the following request:

```bash
PUT _cluster/settings
{
   "transient":{
      "cluster.routing.allocation.total_shards_per_node":100
   }
}
```

To check if there is limit of shards for an index, run the following request:

```bash
GET <index>/_settings/index.routing-
```

> If the response contains the setting below: 

Reviewer: Similarly to my previous comment, could we combine this and the following sentence into something like "If the response contains the setting in the first example, increase its value or set it to `-1` for unlimited [noun], as shown in the second example:"?

```json
"index" : {
        "routing" : {
          "allocation" : {
            "total_shards_per_node" : "10"
          }
        }
      }
```

Increase the value or set it to `-1` for unlimited:

```bash
PUT <index>/_settings
{"index.routing.allocation.total_shards_per_node":-1}
```

> ## The index is write index for some data stream

Reviewer 2: "... is a write index ..." ?

> ## The index is a write index for some data stream

Reviewer: If we can, replace "some" with "a".

> If you still want to delete the index, please check your [data stream]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/data-streams/) settings and change the write index.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you still want to delete the index, check your [data stream]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/data-streams/) settings and change the write index.
```

Reviewer: In most cases, "please" is unnecessary.

## The index is blocked

Generally, the index is blocked because disk usage has exceeded flood-stage watermark and the index has a `read-only-allow-delete` block. To resolve this issue, you can:

1. Remove the `-index.blocks.read_only_allow_delete-` parameter.
1. Temporarily increase the disk watermarks.

> 1. Temporally disable the disk allocation threshold.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Temporarily disable the disk allocation threshold.
```

> To avoid the issue from reoccurring, it is better to reduce the usage of the disk by increasing disk space, adding new nodes, or by removing data or indexes that are no longer needed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To prevent the issue from reoccurring, it is better to reduce the usage of the disk by increasing disk space, adding new nodes, or removing data or indexes that are no longer needed. 
```
